# The Resistance

This repo contains code for two different versions of an application to manage political resistance actions

1. Client-Server
2. Layered (N-Tier)

### Architectural Analysis

Client-server architecture is commonly used for web systems that require content management and file/data storage servers. The reason why it is widely chosen by many applications, including our group’s application, is because of its server and clients relation. In our group’s application, client-server architecture is effective at supporting the specific function of registering protesters and protests with the system. There is one centralized server that stores all the protests information. All the functionality supported by the application, such as registering, adding, and modifying protesters and protests, are processed by that centralized server. Client-server architecture is especially useful in web applications where users access resources from a number of different locations and computers. Users in various locations can connect and upload their resistance information to the server. These resistance information can be managed very efficiently since those information are not stored in individual computers. It is beneficial to use this type of architecture as a small group of three people, since it requires a smaller number of people managing the server and client requests. 

However, there are some drawbacks in using client-server architecture. The biggest drawback is the reduced reliability. With the single server managing all the resistance information, failure of the server can be critical. Users will not be able to upload and update their resistance information until the issue is fixed. Applications that stores those information on each individual computer would not suffer from this problem, as one computer failing would not affect other computers. This issue can be somewhat manageable by having backup servers, although they are quite expensive. Another drawback is that there is a possibility that this type of architecture can cause network congestion when there are too many users trying to access and make modification in the application. However, it is not likely to happen for a small-scaled application like our resistance manager application.

An additional feature that the Client-server architecture supports well is efficient data processing. The efficient data processing of client-server architecture is thanks to the centralization of the server. Data can be properly managed with client-server because all the files and data are stored in the same location. Since data are in the same location, it is easy to find and retrieve data in the database. Also, you can easily make a backup of the data because data is stored in one location. If there were data in many different computers of many different users, it would take much longer to create a backup. Because of the same reason, it is also fast and easy to recover data when something happens and you lose all the data. If it were to be a different architecture where data is stored at each workstation, it would be take much more effort to do the same thing. 

Using N-tier architecture is another great architecture to implement for type of application, because of its easy maintenance and scalability. N-tier architecture is beneficial because it lets you divide up your functionalities. We have implemented the 3-tier system in our application (Presentation, Business, and Data). In our application, index.js is basically the Presentation layer, providing the user interface including all the menus functions. Then there is the Business layer, which helps clients manipulate their resistance data. Business layer processes user requests such as registering and adding protesters and protest information, and moves and those user input and data into the Data layer. In the Data layer, the resistance information is stored. Upon user request, those stored data is retrieved back to the Business layer, and then back to the Presentation layer. Not only that N-tier is effective in dividing up different functionalities of the application, but it also helps with adding new functionality and layers to the application whenever needed very easily. This type of architecture helps you to improve the overall scalability of the application and the function reusability. 

One drawback of the N-tier architecture is that the communication can be complex because of the client does not communicate with the server directly like they do in Client-server architecture. Instead, each layer can only talk to the layer above or below it. Presentation layer to Business layer, and Business layer to Data layer. Therefore, dividing up the layers can slow down the performance of the application due to the involvement of more processes.

An additional feature that the N-tier architecture supports is improved security. Unlike applications where clients talk directly to the server, client requests and inputs has to go through several layers to get to the database. Most of corrupted or malicious data is filtered while being processed by the Business layer. Therefore, N-tier reduces the acces of unauthorized data and increases the validity of data. Also, if a hacker wanted to exploit the data, he/she has go through couple of steps as well. The hacker needs to hack the web server (Presentation layer) first in order to get the information. In systems where the client and server interacts directly with each other, it is much easier for hackers to gain access to information even if there are some security features in place. 